[Kommander] custom domains and certificates for managed clusters (#4553)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.3/clusters/custom-domain-certificate/configuration/index.md

beta: false
enterprise: false
---

This section describes how to enable custom domains and certificates in your **Management and any Managed or Attached** clusters after the installation of DKP. If you want to set up a custom domain and certificate for your Management Cluster **during the installation**, refer to the [Customize a domain and certificate during installation][management] documentation.

To customize the domain or certificate for a specific cluster after the installation of DKP, adapt or create an API `yaml` that will allow Kommander to implement the established adjustments on top of the default or any previous configuration you have made.

## Configure custom domains or custom certificates

<p class="message--warning"><strong>IMPORTANT:</strong>Ensure your <code>dkp</code> configuration references the management cluster of the environment where you want to customize the domain or certificate by setting the <code>KUBECONFIG=<path></code> environment variable, or using the <code>--kubeconfig</code> flag, <a href="https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/">in accordance with Kubernetes conventions</a>.

> To customize the domain or certificate of a cluster, alter the `Ingress` value of the `KommanderCluster`. Note that the `Issuer` object must be created on the cluster where you want to customize the configuration. In the Management cluster, both the `KommanderCluster` and `Issuer` objects are on the same cluster. In Managed and Attached clusters, the `KommanderCluster` object is stored on Management cluster, and the `Issuer` object is on the Managed or Attached cluster.

Author: @mhrabovcin the info you provided seemed important, so I added it here. But now i am wondering how this differentiates from the note we have in line 17?

Reviewer: I think both line (17 and 19) are important.

On this line I'd extend the information and add a mention about certificate secret reference. In the `Ingress` section there is a possibility to reference either the issuer with `IssuerRef` or the Secret with `CertificateSecretRef`. Both these objects must exist on the target cluster. Only one can be used at a time.

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: kommander.mesosphere.io/v1beta1
    kind: KommanderCluster
    metadata:
      name: <cluster_name>
      namespace: <workspace_namespace>
    spec:
      kubeconfigRef:
        name: <cluster_name>-kubeconfig
      clusterRef:
        capiCluster:
          name: <cluster_name>
    ingress:
      hostname: <cluster_hostname>
      issuerRef:
        namespace: <issuer_namespace>
        name: <issuer_name>
    EOF
    ```

    Another option is to use a certificate provided by you and **customized for your hostname**. To do so, create a secret holding the certificate on the target cluster. Reference that secret in the `certificateSecretRef` field and the custom domain in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

>     ```yaml

Author: @mhrabovcin @floridoo Could you provide the patch command to replace this?

Reviewer: ```
cat <<EOF | kubectl -n <workspace_namespace> --kubeconfig <management_cluster_kubeconfig> patch \ 
    kommandercluster <cluster_name>  --type='merge' --patch-file=/dev/stdin
spec:
  ingress:
    hostname: <cluster_hostname>
    certificateSecretRef:
      name: <secret_name>
EOF
```

*NOTE*: There is no option to configure the secret namespace and the secret must be stored in the workspace namespace on the target cluster.

    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: kommander.mesosphere.io/v1beta1
    kind: KommanderCluster
    metadata:
      name: <cluster_name>
      namespace: <workspace_namespace>
    spec:
      kubeconfigRef:
        name: <cluster_name>-kubeconfig
      clusterRef:
        capiCluster:
          name: <cluster_name>
    ingress:
      hostname: <cluster_hostname>
      certificateSecretRef:
        namespace: <secret_namespace>
        name: <secret_name>
    EOF
    ```

### Example: Configure a custom certificate with Let's Encrypt

Let's Encrypt is one of the Certificate Authorities (CA) supported by cert-manager. To set up a Let's Encrypt certificate, provide a `Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer` on the target cluster in the `issuerRef` field:

> <!-- TODO: example for let's encrypt -->

Author: @mhrabovcin @floridoo Could you provide the example command for let's encrypt?

Reviewer: ```
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: custom-acme-issuer
spec:
  acme:
    email: <your_email>
    server: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
    privateKeySecretRef:
      name: kommander-acme-issuer-account
    solvers:
      - dns01:
          route53:
            region: us-east-1
            role: arn:aws:iam::YYYYYYYYYYYY:role/dns-manager
EOF
```

```
cat <<EOF | kubectl -n <workspace_namespace> --kubeconfig <management_cluster_kubeconfig> patch \ 
    kommandercluster <cluster_name>  --type='merge' --patch-file=/dev/stdin
spec:
  ingress:
    hostname: custom-domain.example.com
    issuerRef:
      name: custom-acme-issuer
      kind: ClusterIssuer
EOF
```

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Configuration 
title: Configure a custom domain and certificate for your cluster
menuWeight: 20
excerpt: Configure a custom domain and certificate in the Management and any Managed or Attached Clusters
beta: false
enterprise: false
---

This section describes how to enable custom domains and certificates in your **Management and any Managed or Attached** clusters after the installation of DKP. If you want to set up a custom domain and certificate for your Management Cluster **during the installation**, refer to the [Customize a domain and certificate during installation][management] documentation.

To customize the domain or certificate for a specific cluster after the installation of DKP, adapt or create an API `yaml` that will allow Kommander to implement the established adjustments on top of the default or any previous configuration you have made.

> Note that the `Issuer` object must be created on the cluster where you want to customize the configuration. In the Management cluster, both the `KommanderCluster` and `Issuer` objects are on the same cluster. In Managed and Attached clusters, the `KommanderCluster` object is stored on Management cluster, and the `Issuer` object is on the Managed or Attached cluster.

Author: @mhrabovcin the info you provided seemed important, so I added it here. But now i am wondering how this differentiates from the note we have in line 17?

## Configure custom domains or custom certificates

<p class="message--warning"><strong>IMPORTANT:</strong>Ensure your <code>dkp</code> configuration references the management cluster of the environment where you want to customize the domain or certificate by setting the <code>KUBECONFIG=<path></code> environment variable, or using the <code>--kubeconfig</code> flag, <a href="https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/">in accordance with Kubernetes conventions</a>.

> To customize the domain or certificate of a cluster, alter the `ingress` values of the `KommanderCluster`. Note that the `Issuer` object must be created on the cluster where you want to customize the configuration. In the Management cluster, both the `KommanderCluster` and `Issuer` objects are on the same cluster. In Managed and Attached clusters, the `KommanderCluster` object is stored on Management cluster, and the `Issuer` object is on the Managed or Attached cluster.

Author: @mhrabovcin the info you provided seemed important, so I added it here. But now I am wondering how this differentiates from the note we have in line 19?

Use the API yaml to customize the domain (via the `hostname` field), the certificate (via the `issuerRef` or `certificateSecretRef` field), or both.

For this, refer to the following examples:

1.  You have two options to create or update and apply the `KommanderCluster` object with the wanted ingress.

    One option is to use a certificate that is managed automatically and supported by cert-manager like ACME (if you use Let's Encrypt, refer to the [example below](#example-configure-a-custom-certificate-with-lets-encrypt). For this, reference the `Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer` on the target cluster **to be used by cert-manager** in the `issuerRef` field, and enter the custom domain in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

>     ```yaml

Author: @mhrabovcin @floridoo Could you provide the patch command to replace this?

To customize the domain or certificate of a cluster, alter the `spec` values of the `ingress` object in the `KommanderCluster`. Note that you can reference an issuer as an `issuerRef` **OR** a secret as a `certificateSecretRef`, as long as the object is created on the cluster where you want to customize the configuration.

In the Management cluster, both the `KommanderCluster` and `issuerRef` or `certificateSecretRef` objects are on the same cluster. In Managed and Attached clusters, the `KommanderCluster` object is stored on the Management cluster, and the `issuerRef` or `certificateSecretRef` object is on the Managed or Attached cluster.

Use the API yaml to customize the domain (via the `hostname` field), and the certificate (via the `issuerRef` or `certificateSecretRef` field).

Refer to the following examples:

1.  You have two options to create or update and apply the `KommanderCluster` object with the wanted ingress.

>     One option is to use a certificate that is managed automatically and supported by cert-manager like ACME (if you use Let's Encrypt, refer to the [example below](#example-configure-a-custom-certificate-with-lets-encrypt). For this, reference the `Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer` on the target cluster **to be used by cert-manager** in the `issuerRef` field, and enter the custom domain in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

Author: @cneth this has changed significantly since the last time you reviewed. In the old version, we used `kubectl apply` to edit and apply the whole `KommanderCluster` resource yaml. In this version, we opted for using a patch command to keep users from accidentally editing other fields and also because it is a more straightforward way. 
In your review you suggested we add "Make sure the  `kubeconfigRef` field contains the name of the secret that holds the `kubeconfig` for the cluster." but I don't if that makes sense now that we don't use the whole yaml (however, it seems important!)
Maybe that is something we should elsewhere? maybe as a prereq? @floridoo @mhrabovcin

>     One option is to use a certificate that is managed automatically and supported by cert-manager like ACME (if you use Let's Encrypt, refer to the [example below](#example-configure-a-custom-certificate-with-lets-encrypt). For this, reference the **name of the `Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer` that contains your ACME provider information** in the `issuerRef` field, and enter the custom domain name in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

Author: @cneth this has changed significantly since the last time you reviewed. In the old version, we used `kubectl apply` to edit and apply the whole `KommanderCluster` resource yaml. In this version, we opted for using a patch command to keep users from accidentally editing other fields and also because it is a more straightforward way. 
In your review you suggested we add "Make sure the  `kubeconfigRef` field contains the name of the secret that holds the `kubeconfig` for the cluster." but I don't if that makes sense now that we don't use the whole yaml (however, it seems important!)
Maybe that is something we should elsewhere? maybe as a prereq? @floridoo @mhrabovcin

> Refer to the following examples:
> 
> 1.  You have two options to create or update and apply the `KommanderCluster` object with the wanted ingress.
> 
>     One option is to use a certificate that is managed automatically and supported by cert-manager like ACME (if you use Let's Encrypt, refer to the [example below](#example-configure-a-custom-certificate-with-lets-encrypt). For this, reference the **name of the `Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer` that contains your ACME provider information** in the `issuerRef` field, and enter the custom domain name in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have two options to create or update and apply the `KommanderCluster` object with the wanted ingress.

1. One option is to use a certificate that is managed automatically and supported by cert-manager like ACME (if you use Let's Encrypt, refer to the [example below](#example-configure-a-custom-certificate-with-lets-encrypt). For this, reference the **name of the `Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer` that contains your ACME provider information** in the `issuerRef` field, and enter the custom domain name in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:
```

Author: addressed in caa80f8

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl -n <workspace_namespace> --kubeconfig <management_cluster_kubeconfig> patch \ 
    kommandercluster <cluster_name>  --type='merge' --patch-file=/dev/stdin
    spec:
      ingress:
        hostname: <cluster_hostname>
        issuerRef:
          name: <issuer_name>
          kind: ClusterIssuer # or Issuer depending on the issuer config
    EOF
    ```

>     Another option is to use a certificate provided by you and **customized for your hostname**. To do so, create a secret holding the certificate on the target cluster. Reference that secret in the `certificateSecretRef` field and the custom domain in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

Author: ```suggestion
    Another option is to use a manually created certificate that is **customized for your hostname**. To do so, create a secret holding the certificate on the target cluster. Reference that secret in the `certificateSecretRef` field and the custom domain name in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:
```

>     Another option is to use a manually created certificate that is **customized for your hostname**. To do so, create a secret holding the certificate on the target cluster. Reference that secret in the `certificateSecretRef` field and the custom domain name in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

Author: Comment by @cneth "Also, can we explain what format/shape the Secret should look like? I.e. I assume it needs to have specific fields in it, right? I.e. data.crt or whatever."

Author: @mhrabovcin can you please provide example?

Author: addressed in caa80f8

>     Another option is to use a manually created certificate that is **customized for your hostname**. To do so, create a secret holding the certificate on the target cluster. Reference that secret in the `certificateSecretRef` field and the custom domain name in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Another option is to use a manually created certificate that is **customized for your hostname**. To do so, create a [TLS Secret holding the certificate](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#tls-secrets) on the target cluster. Reference that secret in the `certificateSecretRef` field and the custom domain name in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:
```

>     Another option is to use a manually created certificate that is **customized for your hostname**. To do so, create a secret holding the certificate on the target cluster. Reference that secret in the `certificateSecretRef` field and the custom domain name in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

Author: addressed in caa80f8

1.  Create the Let's Encrypt ACME cert-manager issuer:

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
    kind: ClusterIssuer
    metadata:
      name: custom-acme-issuer
    spec:
      acme:
        email: <your_email>
        server: https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory
        privateKeySecretRef:
          name: kommander-acme-issuer-account
        solvers:
          - dns01:
              route53:
                region: us-east-1
                role: arn:aws:iam::YYYYYYYYYYYY:role/dns-manager
    EOF
    ```

1.  Configure the Management cluster to use your `custom-domain.example.com` with a certificate issued by Let's Encrypt.

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl -n kommander --kubeconfig <management_cluster_kubeconfig> patch \ kommandercluster host-cluster  --type='merge' --patch-file=/dev/stdin
    spec:
      ingress:
        hostname: custom-domain.example.com
        issuerRef:
          name: custom-acme-issuer
          kind: ClusterIssuer
    EOF
    ```

## Verify the status of the configuration and troubleshoot in case of errors

> If you want to ensure the customization for a domain or a certificate is completed, or if you want to obtain more information if the customization fails, display the status information for the `KommanderCluster`.

Author: Comment by Craig: And maybe the command to run here is `kubectl describe KommanderCluster -n <workspace_name> <cluster_name> ?

Author: @mhrabovcin

Reviewer 2: For consistency, I'd go with `kubectl describe kommandercluster -n <workspace_name> <cluster_name>`

Author: addressed in caa80f8

> If you want to ensure the customization for a domain or a certificate is completed, or if you want to obtain more information in case the customization fails, call up a list of statuses for the `KommanderCluster`.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to ensure the customization for a domain or a certificate is completed, or if you want to obtain more information if the customization fails, display the status information for the `KommanderCluster`.
```

To customize the domain or certificate for a specific cluster after the installation of DKP, adapt or create an API `yaml` that will allow Kommander to implement the established adjustments on top of the default or any previous configuration you have made.

## Configure custom domains or custom certificates

<p class="message--warning"><strong>IMPORTANT:</strong>Ensure your <code>dkp</code> configuration references the management cluster of the environment where you want to customize the domain or certificate by setting the <code>KUBECONFIG=<path></code> environment variable, or using the <code>--kubeconfig</code> flag, <a href="https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/">in accordance with Kubernetes conventions</a>.

Use the API yaml to customize the domain (via the `hostname` field), the certificate (via the `issuerRef` or `certificateSecretRef` field), or both. For this, refer to the following examples:

1.  You have two options to create or update and apply the `KommanderCluster` object with the wanted ingress. Remember to specify the cluster in the `kubeconfigRef` name field.

>     One option is to use a certificate that is managed automatically by cert-manager with the ACME protocol like Let's Encrypt. For this, reference the `Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer` **to be used by cert-manager** in the `issuerRef` field, and enter the custom domain in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

Reviewer 2: > with the ACME protocol like Let's Encrypt
Any issuer supported by cert-manager is supported. ACME is the most common case, but not the only possibility.

>     One option is to use a certificate that is managed automatically by cert-manager with the ACME protocol like Let's Encrypt. For this, reference the `Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer` **to be used by cert-manager** in the `issuerRef` field, and enter the custom domain in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    One option is to use a certificate that is managed automatically by cert-manager with the ACME protocol like Let's Encrypt. For this, reference the `Issuer` or `ClusterIssuer` on the target cluster **to be used by cert-manager** in the `issuerRef` field, and enter the custom domain in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:
```

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: kommander.mesosphere.io/v1beta1
    kind: KommanderCluster
    metadata:
      name: <cluster_name>
      namespace: <workspace_namespace>
    spec:
      kubeconfigRef:
        name: <cluster_name>-kubeconfig
      clusterRef:
        capiCluster:
          name: <cluster_name>
    ingress:
      hostname: <cluster_hostname>
      issuerRef:
        namespace: <issuer_namespace>
        name: <issuer_name>
    EOF
    ```

>     Another option is to use a certificate provided by you and **customized for your hostname**. To do so, enter the secret in the `certificateSecretRef` field and the custom domain in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Another option is to use a certificate provided by you and **customized for your hostname**. To do so, create a secret holding the certifcate on the target cluster. Reference that secret in the `certificateSecretRef` field and the custom domain in the `hostname` field of the target cluster:
```

    ```yaml
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: kommander.mesosphere.io/v1beta1
    kind: KommanderCluster
    metadata:
      name: <cluster_name>
      namespace: <workspace_namespace>
    spec:
      kubeconfigRef:
        name: <cluster_name>-kubeconfig
      clusterRef:
        capiCluster:
          name: <cluster_name>
    ingress:
      hostname: <cluster_hostname>
      certificateSecretRef:
        namespace: <secret_namespace>
        name: <secret_name>
    EOF
    ```

## Verify the status of the configuration and troubleshoot in case of errors

If you want to ensure the customization for a domain or a certificate is completed, or if you want to obtain more information in case the customization fails, call up a list of statuses for the `KommanderCluster`.

1.  Inspect the modified `KommanderCluster` object:

    ```bash
    kubect -n <workspace_namespace> get kommandercluster <cluster_name> -o yaml
    ```

    If the ingress is still being provisioned, the output looks similar to this:

>     ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```yaml
```

      conditions:
      - lastTransitionTime: "2022-06-24T07:48:31Z"
        message: Ingress service object was not found in the cluster
        reason: IngressServiceNotFound
        status: "False"
        type: IngressAddressReady
    ```

    If the provisioning has been completed, the output looks similar to this:

    ```bash
      - lastTransitionTime: "2022-06-24T07:58:48Z"
        message: Ingress service address has been provisioned
        reason: IngressServiceAddressFound
        status: "True"
        type: IngressAddressReady
      - lastTransitionTime: "2022-06-24T07:58:50Z"
        message: Certificate is up to date and has not expired
        reason: Ready
        status: "True"
        type: IngressCertificateReady
    ```

You can also call up the actual customized values, by inspecting the `KommanderCluster.Status.Ingress`. Here is an example:

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

This section describes how to enable custom domains and certificates in your **Management and any Managed or Attached** clusters after the installation of DKP. If you want to set up a custom domain and certificate for your Management Cluster **during the installation**, refer to the [Customize a domain and certificate during installation][management] documentation.

To customize the domain or certificate for a specific cluster after the installation of DKP, adapt or create an API `yaml` that will allow DKP to implement the established adjustments on top of the default or any previous configuration you have made.

## Configure custom domains or custom certificates

<p class="message--warning"><strong>IMPORTANT:</strong> Ensure your <code>dkp</code> configuration references the management cluster of the environment where you want to customize the domain or certificate by setting the <code>KUBECONFIG=<path></code> environment variable, or using the <code>--kubeconfig</code> flag, <a href="https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/configure-access-multiple-clusters/">in accordance with Kubernetes conventions</a>.

> To customize the domain or certificate of a cluster, alter the `issuer` object in the `ingress` values of the `KommanderCluster`. Note that you can reference an issuer as an `issuerRef` **OR** a secret as a `certificateSecretRef`, as long as the object is created on the cluster where you want to customize the configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
To customize the domain or certificate of a cluster, alter the `spec` values of the `ingress` object in the `KommanderCluster`. Note that you can reference an issuer as an `issuerRef` **OR** a secret as a `certificateSecretRef`, as long as the object is created on the cluster where you want to customize the configuration.
```
